gh-130587: Add hand-written docs for non-OP tokens (#130588)
python/cpython: Doc/library/token.rst

The module also provides a mapping from numeric codes to names and some
functions.  The functions mirror definitions in the Python C header files.

Note that a token's value may depend on tokenizer options. For example, a
``"+"`` token may be reported as either :data:`PLUS` or :data:`OP`, or
a ``"match"`` token may be either :data:`NAME` or :data:`SOFT_KEYWORD`.

> 

Author: I added this note to clarify the “fuzziness” of these categories.

The token constants are:

.. data:: NAME

   Token value that indicates an :ref:`identifier <identifiers>`.

>    Note that keywords are also identifiers.

Reviewer: Maybe something like this would be more precise?

```suggestion
   Note that keywords are also initially tokenized an ``NAME`` tokens.
```

.. data:: NUMBER

   Token value that indicates a :ref:`numeric literal <numbers>`

.. data:: STRING

   Token value that indicates a :ref:`string or byte literal <strings>`,

>    excluding :ref:`f-strings <f-strings>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   excluding :ref:`f-strings`.
```

I do not see any need for duplication?

>    excluding :ref:`f-strings <f-strings>`.

Reviewer 3: Use the ['full'](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#f-strings) name for f-strings
```suggestion
   excluding :ref:`formatted string literals <f-strings>`.
```

   The token string is not interpreted: it includes the prefix (if any)
   and the quote characters; escape sequences are included with their

>    initial backslash.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   The token string is not interpreted:
   it includes the surrounding quotation marks and the prefix (if given);
   backslashes are included literally, without processing escape sequences.
```

.. data:: OP

   A generic token value returned by the :mod:`tokenize` module for

>    :ref:`operators <operators>` and :ref:`delimiters <delimiters>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :ref:`operators` and :ref:`delimiters`.
```

Reviewer 3: Check the rendered output. Without the explicit title, the original one is used, with incorrect capitalisation.

>    :ref:`operators <operators>` and :ref:`delimiters <delimiters>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A generic token value that indicates an
   :ref:`operator <operators>` or :ref:`delimiter <delimiters>`.
```

Reviewer: Let's include the information that this is only returned by the `tokenize` module. It's not used internally in the tokenizer at all. Maybe add it as an implementation detail?

Author: The `tokenize` docs have some more information; how much should be repeated here?

Reviewer: Maybe add an `.. impl-detail::` like you did for `ENCODING`?

>    See the :mod:`tokenize` module documentation for details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

.. data:: COMMENT

   Token value used to indicate a comment.

>    The parser ignores :data:`!COMMENT` tokens.

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is needed.
```suggestion
```

Author: I think it's rather important, especially if we want the grammar to refer to the token docs. `COMMENT` will never appear in the grammar.

.. data:: NEWLINE

   Token value that indicates the end of a :ref:`logical line <logical-lines>`

>    of Python code.

Reviewer 3: All of this is Python code
```suggestion
   Token value that indicates the end of a :ref:`logical line <logical-lines>`.
```

.. data:: NL

>    Token value used to indicate a non-terminating newline.
>    :data:`!NL` tokens are generated when a logical line of code is continued
>    over multiple physical lines. The parser ignores :data:`!NL` tokens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Token value used to indicate a non-terminating newline.
   :data:`!NL` tokens are generated when a logical line of code is continued
   over multiple physical lines, so that each physical line is denoted by either a :data:`!NEWLINE` or :data:`!NL` token.
```

Author: Or a `\n` in a string. I don't think we need the list here.

.. data:: INDENT

   Token value used at the beginning of a :ref:`logical line <logical-lines>`
   to indicate the start of an :ref:`indented block <indentation>`.

.. data:: DEDENT

   Token value used at the beginning of a :ref:`logical line <logical-lines>`
   to indicate the end of an :ref:`indented block <indentation>`.

.. data:: FSTRING_START

>    Token value used to indicate the beginning of a
>    :ref:`f-string <f-strings>`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Token value used to indicate the beginning of an
   :ref:`f-string literal <f-strings>`.
```

   .. impl-detail::

>       The token string includes the prefix and the opening quote, but none

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The token string includes the prefix and the opening quote(s), but none
```

      of the contents of the literal.

.. data:: FSTRING_MIDDLE

>    Token value used for literal text inside an :ref:`f-string <f-strings>`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Token value used for literal text inside an :ref:`f-string literal <f-strings>`,
```

   including format specifications.

   .. impl-detail::

      Replacement fields (that is, the non-literal parts of f-strings) use
      the same tokens as other expressions, and are delimited by
      :data:`LBRACE`, :data:`RBRACE`, :data:`EXCLAMATION` and :data:`COLON`
      tokens.

.. data:: FSTRING_END

   Token value used to indicate the end of a :ref:`f-string <f-strings>`.

   .. impl-detail::

>       The token string contains the closing quote.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The token string contains the closing quote(s).
```

.. data:: ENDMARKER

   Token value that indicates the end of input.

>    Used in :ref:`top-level grammar rules <top-level>`.

Reviewer 3: Ordering: ENDMARKER was at the start of `token-list.inc`, but is now at the bottom

Author: That's intentional, I tried to reorder them roughly by relevance (and to group similar ones together). I don't think `ENDMARKER` should be first.

.. data:: ENCODING

   Token value that indicates the encoding used to decode the source bytes
   into text. The first token returned by :func:`tokenize.tokenize` will
   always be an ``ENCODING`` token.

   .. impl-detail::

      This token type isn't used by the C tokenizer but is needed for
      the :mod:`tokenize` module.

The following token types are not produced by the :mod:`tokenize` module,
and are defined for special uses in the tokenizer or parser:

.. data:: TYPE_IGNORE

   Token value indicating that a ``type: ignore`` comment was recognized.
   Such tokens are produced instead of regular :data:`COMMENT` tokens only when

>    :func:`ast.parse` is invoked with ``type_comments=True``.

Reviewer 3: Does `compile()` with the AST flag not produce them?

Reviewer: I think it does.

>    :func:`ast.parse` is invoked with ``type_comments=True``.

Author: ```suggestion
   Token value indicating that a ``type: ignore`` comment was recognized.
   Such tokens are produced instead of regular :data:`COMMENT` tokens only
   with the :data:`~ast.PyCF_TYPE_COMMENTS` flag.
```

.. data:: TYPE_COMMENT

>    Token value indicating that a type comment was recognized.
>    Such tokens are produced instead of regular :data:`COMMENT` tokens only when
>    :func:`ast.parse` is invoked with ``type_comments=True``.

Author: ```suggestion
   Token value indicating that a type comment was recognized.
   Such tokens are produced instead of regular :data:`COMMENT` tokens only
   with the :data:`~ast.PyCF_TYPE_COMMENTS` flag.
```

.. data:: SOFT_KEYWORD

   Token value indicating a :ref:`soft keyword <soft-keywords>`.

   The tokenizer never produces this value.
   To check for a soft keyword, pass a :data:`NAME` token's string to
   :func:`keyword.issoftkeyword`.

.. data:: ERRORTOKEN

   Token value used to indicate wrong input.

   The :mod:`tokenize` module generally indicates errors by
   raising exceptions instead of emitting this token.
   It can also emit tokens such as :data:`OP` or :data:`NAME` with strings that
   are later rejected by the parser.

> The remaining tokens represent specific :ref:`operators <operators>` and
> :ref:`delimiters <delimiters>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The remaining tokens represent specific :ref:`operators` and
:ref:`delimiters`.
```

Reviewer 3: Check the rendered output. Without the explicit title, the original one is used, with incorrect capitalisation.
